UniFi Protect: document public API camera streams as the default (#45823)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/unifiprotect.markdown

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Public API camera streams

> By default, the integration sources camera live streams from each camera's RTSP(S) URLs through UniFi Protect's private API, as described above. With this option, it sources them from the official UniFi Protect public API instead. To turn this on, go to {% my integrations title="**Settings** > **Devices & services**" %}, select **UniFi Protect**, select **Configure**, and turn on **Use the public API for camera streams (experimental)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the integration sources camera live streams from each camera's RTSP(S) URLs through UniFi Protect's private API, as described above. If the **Public API camera streams** option is enabled, it sources them from the official UniFi Protect public API instead.
```

This option is _experimental_ and turned off by default. It works well for smaller setups, but on installations with many cameras the public API request rate limit can slow down or briefly interrupt startup. It is expected to become the default once UniFi Protect provides stream information more efficiently. Turning the option off returns to the standard RTSP(S) stream handling, and your camera entities stay the same either way.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Enabling the Public API camera streams option

The option is turned off by default. To enable the option:

1. Go to {% my integrations title="**Settings** > **Devices & services**" %} and select **UniFi Protect**.
2. Select **Configure**, and enable **Use the public API for camera streams (experimental)**.

```
I would move the procedural part into its own section.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Public API camera streams

By default, the integration sources camera live streams from the official UniFi Protect public API. To use the legacy behavior instead, you can turn this off, and the integration sources streams from each camera's RTSP(S) URLs through UniFi Protect's private API, as described above. Your camera entities stay the same either way.

#### Turning off the Public API camera streams option

The option is turned on by default. To turn it off:

1. Go to {% my integrations title="**Settings** > **Devices & services**" %} and select **UniFi Protect**.
2. Select **Configure**, and turn off **Use the public API for camera streams**.

When the option is on and a camera is online but has no active public API stream, Home Assistant suggests a repair named **No stream is available for camera**. Confirming the repair has Home Assistant create the highest quality RTSPS stream for that camera through the UniFi Protect public API. You can also turn on a stream directly in UniFi Protect under _Share Livestream_. Offline cameras don't trigger this repair.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Configuration options

The integration provides the following configuration options. Go to {% my integrations title=\"**Settings** > **Devices & services**\" %}, select **UniFi Protect**, then select the cogwheel {% icon "mdi:cog-outline" %} (**Configure**).

{% configuration_basic %}
Use the public API for camera streams:
    description: "When enabled (default), the integration sources camera live streams from the official UniFi Protect public API instead of each camera's RTSP(S) URLs. Your camera entities stay the same either way. When a camera is online but has no active public API stream, Home Assistant suggests a **No stream is available for camera** repair, which creates the highest-quality RTSP stream for that camera via the UniFi Protect public API. You can also turn on a stream directly in UniFi Protect under _Share Livestream_. Offline cameras don't trigger this repair. When you turn off **Use the public API for camera streams**, the integration sources streams from each camera's RTSP(S) URLs through UniFi Protect's private API."
{% endconfiguration_basic %}
```
Apologies, I was wrong in my previous comment. I think this should probably use the standard configuration options style. 
https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L80

I added a suggestion, but please check it carefully and fix if needed.
